\subsection{Aria}
\label{sec:Aria}

\aren{Traitor...}

\emph{Aria} is the lesser deity of secrets, intrigues, knowledge and hidden
things. She is often depicted as a woman clad hiding her face from onlookers.

\subsubsection*{History}

Aria was once a powerful priestess of the \emph{Silent Queen}, before she
challenged the queen's reign during the conflict against \emph{Griannar}.
During that challenge it is said that she was responsible for killing the
\emph{Silent Queen} and usurping her domain, power and rule over the
extra-planar realm where the Silent Queen resided.

\subsubsection*{Well of Truth}
\label{sec:Well of Truth}

She openly encourages hiding dangerous knowledge in hidden libraries and
archives. She, and her followers, believe that some knowledge is just too
powerful to be left in the hands of mere mortals. The followers of \emph{Aria}
that go out and seek such knowledge to lock away, are called the \emph{Well of
  Truth}. This knowledge may include powerful artefacts and magical
techniques, that are deemed to dangerous. This puts her followers often in
direct conflict with most \emph{soul magic} practitioners, as well as those
following the \emph{rune master}. Followers of the well do not research
knowledge themselves, but instead see themselves as guards against dangerous
knowledge in the wrong hands. They are known for stealing research from
scientists and wizards, as well as killing researchers so that their secrets
may die with them.

\subsubsection*{The Puppeteer}

Not only does she encourage the gathering of knowledge and information, she
also openly encourages her followers to use said knowledge for personal gain.
Many of her followers are thus often those that seek to control society from
the shadows, while amassing wealth and power in secrecy.

\subsubsection*{Relations}

Aria is in direct conflict with the \emph{Runemaster}, as he gifts powerful
magic and teachings to mortals. She also openly opposes anyone who seeks to
investigate unethical practices such as necromancy. The uncompromising methods
of her followers, such as theft or outright assassination, brings her and her
followers often in direct conflict with the \emph{Order} or the knights of
\emph{Lor}.

\begin{35e}{Aria}
  She considered Lawful Evil and her domains are knowledge, travel, magic and
  trickery. She considered the patron of thieves, wizards, librarians,
  archivists, and researchers. Her favoured weapon is the short sword.

  There are two feats associated with Aria: \featref{Adept of Aria} and
  \featref{Well of Truth Agent}.
\end{35e}
