\subsection{Lor}
\label{sec:Lor}

Lor is a lesser deity of justice, law, discipline, good and the fight against
all evil. He is often depicted as an angelic humanoid creature that kneels
down with his two handed sword buried in the soil.

\subsubsection{History}

Lor himself is the current patriarch of \nameref{sec:Aurelis}, and is thus
among the older lesser deities of Aror He. His followers are always in direct
conflict with evil elements of the world. Lor's worship is well established
all across the world, and many welcome his knights and paladins as a means to
establish law and order, as well as a way to fight evils, such as daemons and
undead.

\subsubsection{Dogma}

The followers of Lor have one prevailing Dogma, which is strictly controlled
by the Church of Lor. The church, and its leader the reigning patriarch or
matriarch, reside in the city kingdom of \emph{Hraglund}. The church preaches
austerity, monogamy and a strict life that rewards those that help the weak
and wounded. Daily prayers are required, as well as weekly attendance to
masses. The priests of Lor often guide a community of followers either alone,
or with an adept they teach. The followers of Lor are meant to seek out and
destroy evil, even the evil that resides within themselves. He instructs his
followers to repent for their signs and purge evil within them through
flagellation, as well as help and aid others to atone for their signs.

To Lor and his followers any undead, devils, daemons, demons and fey are evil,
and wicked. And Lor openly encourages anyone to seek out and destroy such
evil wherever it may lurk and hide. Lor also abhors the manipulation of souls,
and thus sees anyone that practise \hyperref[sec:Soul Magic]{soul magic} as
evil. Lor also abhors the evil practices of most druids, and those that follow
the \hyperref[sec:Old Ways]{old ways}.

Most followers that dedicate themselves to Lor become priests, knights,
paladins or monks. Lor values dedication, hard work as well as spiritual
strength and resolve. The dogma is preserved and cultivated in the
\nameref{sec:Knight Order of Tavos}.

\subsubsection{Relations}

Lor is in direct conflict with pretty much all major evil or neutral gods and
religions, especially with \nameref{sec:Three Kings}, the \nameref{sec:Order},
as well as the three other major gods \nameref{sec:Forun}, \nameref{sec:Nyddwr}
and \nameref{sec:Marwaid}. Lor sees these as heretic and archaic forms of
worship, practising or allowing practise of acts he considers evil, such as
slavery, humanoid worship or soul magic rituals.

\begin{35e}{Lor}
  Lor is considered \emph{lawful good}, and he is the patron of knights,
  paladins, and monks and anyone who seeks to destroy evil. His favoured
  weapon is the two handed sword.
\end{35e}
