\subsection{Marwaid}
\label{sec:Marwaid}

\emph{Marwaid}, is a true deity, and represents both abstract and literal
sacrifice, family and community. Along with \nameref{sec:Nyddwr} and
\nameref{sec:Forun}, who are often described as sisters in the old stories,
Marwaid is among the oldest true deities worshipped by the humanoid races. She
is associated with autumn.

\subsubsection{Personification}

Like her sisters she is often depicted as a woman, especially as a mother who
was willing to accept that her grown children would sacrifice themselves in an
effort to make life better for everyone. This is often represented as a
wailing mother smothering her dead child who appears to have died in
battle. But in the tribes that still follow the old ways, she is rarely
directly personified, but instead worshipped through specially made stone
altars.

\subsubsection{Dogma}

Most followers of Marwaid follow the old ways, meaning they live in small
villages and tribes far away from civilisation. In these hostile and dangerous
regions - where strife against monstrous races, food shortages, war, monsters
and disease are common - Marwaid favours anyone who is willing to sacrifice
themselves for others and the common good. She favours hunters and farmers
that go hungry to feed the children, warriors that hold their ground to let
the weak, young and elderly escape, and those that sacrifice the now for a
better future, for example by stockpiling food, and use vital resources
sparingly to ensure there is enough for future generations.

She is often explained as having an erratic will and often tests her trusted
followers. Those that were forced to sacrifice - for example by losing loved
ones to sickness or famine - often see no pattern or purpose in their own
suffering and then attribute it to Marwaid's fickle and unpredictable nature.

\subsubsection{Shrines of Marwaid}

Most shamans of the old ways follow her, and build shrines to her worship.
These are often situated in clearings or in the centre of small towns, and are
large painted standing stones adorned with personal belongings that the
followers sacrificed. Shamans and priests of Marwaid perform ceremonies where
followers either offer either abstract sacrifices, in form of promises and
pledges, or literal sacrifices, in the form of personal belongings, food, life
stock and - albeit rarely - humanoid sacrifice to these stone shrines. These
sacrifices are then accepted by the shaman on her behalf, and are then added
and standing stone as ornaments and decoration.

This often gives the shrines of Marwaid a rather grim appearance, as they are
adorned with skulls, bones, spoiled food, and perhaps even the remains of
humanoid bodies, alongside with personal affects such as weapons, necklaces,
tools, and clothing. Those that take from the shrines are said to be cursed
until they sacrifice something of importance to the very shrine they stole
from.

\subsubsection{Relations}

The goddess of Marwaid is often said to be related to the other three
female primordial true deities, \nameref{sec:Forun} and \nameref{sec:Nyddwr}.
Her followers are well respected among the followers of the old ways, and
those living on the country side. However worship of her have waned in the
large city kingdoms were resources are in abundance and thus ritualised
sacrifice are rarely required to ensure a prosperous future. This often gives
her followers grounds to berate the ``city folk'' for being spoiled and having
lost their strength that comes with the struggle and replaced it with comfort
and security.

\begin{35e}{Marwaid}
  Marwaid is considered as Chaotic Good or Chaotic Neutral, and her favourite
  weapon are the unarmed attack and the quarterstaff. She's favoured by rangers,
  barbarians, shamans and those that have a tormented life, such as slaves.
\end{35e}

\clearpage
\incgraph[
  overlay={\node[black] at ([xshift=-6cm,yshift=+0.2cm]page.south east)
    {\large \textbf{Shrine to Marwaid somewhere in the \emph{Dirgewood}, circa GT:2102}};
  }
]{media/marwaid.png}
\clearpage
