\subsection{Esmayar}
\label{sec:Esmayar}

Esmayar was one of the older city kingdoms of Aror, with a rife history but has
since fallen to the gnoll raiders in \emph{MI:1213}.

\subsubsection{Old Banner}

The old humanoid banner of the city was a light blue shield, with two white
sabres crossed beneath a golden crown. This flag is still warn by survivors and
the noble house of Esmayar which fled to Fes al-Bashir and El-Fayam.

\subsubsection{New Banner}

The new banner shows a dark sand-yellow head of a gnoll upon white background,
beneath a golden crown.

\subsubsection{History}

It was founded in \emph{GT:592} in the delta, and along the banks of the
\emph{Balran} river on the north western shores of \nameref{sec:Arania}. Much
like Fes al-Bashar, with which the city shared a long historical and cultural
friendship, it got rich by selling agricultural products, such as exotic
fruits, tobacco, chocolate and coffee to the other city kingdoms and
baronies. This wealth attracted raiders, bandits and the gnoll tribes of the
desert who besieged the city constantly over the course of thousands of
years. Although it was always capable of defending against these attacks, the
constant ransacking and pillaging of the outlying farms and plantations
drained the kingdom's resources to the point of bankruptcy. With the military
aid of Fes al-Bashir and northern city kingdoms it held on to the power within
the city but had long lost the outlying villages. They fragmented into smaller
nomadic tribes and proofed difficult to reintegrate into the waning
empire. Unable to reunite the land, the kingdom fell apart leaving only the
city of around four million inhabitants under the control of the ruling
monarch.

And then in \emph{MI:1213} the final and last siege of the kingdom began as an
army of gnolls marched upon the walled city. The siege, with the aid of Fes
al-Bashir and the ``devils of the north'' (soldiers and mercenaries from
\nameref{sec:Norbury}) were able to hold off the besieging army for several
months before the city fell in the late months of that year.

\subsubsection{Gnoll Kingdom}

The gnolls ransacked the city and the surrounding lands, killing most of the
native population through ritualistic immolation. Many fled towards Fes
al-Bashir by ship with the aid of the retreating army of the Norbury and Fes
al-Bashir. The gnolls took the kingdom as their own, and began to enslave most
of those that could not flee and survived the gnoll's slaughter. Although many
kingdoms ignored the self proclaimed gnoll kingdom, dismissing it as a
short-lived and temporary kingdom that would fall apart on its own due to the
gnoll's limited knowledge on how to effectively run such a vast and big
empire.

The retreating humanoid races destroyed the dragon teleporter, and all other
humanoid city kingdoms avoided contact with the new gnoll empire, isolating it
both diplomatically and economically. Most organisations of power believed
that this was sufficient to starve out the gnolls, and make their kingdom fall
within a decade or two. But to everyone's surprise, the gnoll's kingdom has
now lasted for over eight hundred years. They withstood, famine, plague and
many attempts of the humanoid races to retake the city. At first they took and
plundered everything their kingdom required, but are now, after using their
slaves to rebuild and tend to farms and plantations, they have become self
sufficient.

At first their laws against humanoids was harsh and unforgiving, enslaving any
and every humanoid they found. But over the course of centuries their society
opened up, and even allowed humanoid species to visit and trade within the
city of Esmayar. The gnolls have shifted the focus of the empire's economy
towards precious stones, silver, and gold, while engaging heavily in the slave
trade of humanoid species. They are not a signer of the \nameref{sec:Vonir
  Accord} and thus enslave anyone that misbehaves or commits crimes (real or
merely accused) within their city.

The gnoll pack leader claims the king's throne and is the supreme ruler of the
city, although their state as a city kingdom is not recognised by the other
major humanoid city kingdom. Although they are now one the weakest and
smallest of the city kingdoms, no one dares to besiege or reclaim it, due to
the fear of either a military defeat or heavy losses such a campaign would
bring. It is widely known that the gnolls have made pacts and alliances with
other monstrous baronies and smaller kingdoms, especially those of
\nameref{sec:Eilean Mor} and \nameref{sec:Iafandir} to bolster their power,
and to have a deterrent against any foreign humanoid invasion or interference.

\subsubsection{Relations}

\aren{It is fine if you enslave your own races, but mothers' forbid if
  the monstrous races do it.
}

None of the city kingdoms accept or recognise the gnoll's reign over Esmayar,
and thus the city kingdom has no official allies. In truth however the various
agencies of the other slaver nations (such as the \nameref{sec:Velvet Hand}
and the \nameref{sec:Hunters Guild}) have been known to trade with the gnoll
empire. A tactic that is both lucrative and highly controversial.

The city kingdom of \nameref{sec:Morkan} has often used the kingdom as an
example of what happens when the humanoids show lenience and weakness against
monstrous invaders. Taras has sworn on many occasions to turn his gaze towards
the gnolls of the city once the continent of \nameref{sec:Iafandir} has been
cleansed of the monstrous races.

Esmayar is allied with many smaller monstrous kingdoms, such as hobgoblin
kingdoms and larger ogre tribes or bugbear baronies. It openly seeks to
establish new relations with monstrous villages and tribes, especially with
the other nomadic gnoll tribes that still wander the continent of
\nameref{sec:Arania}.
