\subsection{Fes al-Bashir}
\label{sec:Fes al-Bashir}

The city kingdom of \emph{Fes al-Bashir} is the oldest city kingdom, and also
the oldest civilisation on \emph{Aror}. It was founded in \emph{GT:0}. This is
not a coincidence as when the calendars were consolidated by the scholars of
the city, they realigned the years to use the foundation of the city as point
zero for the old calendar.

\subsubsection{Banner}

The banner of Fes al-Bashir is a red shield, featuring a golden eagle beneath
a white half moon that points downward.

\subsubsection{History}

The city was first founded when many nomadic tribes began to permanently
settle down in the vast delta of the river \emph{Alis} on the eastern shores
of \nameref{sec:Arania}. Throughout its history it was always in conflict with
other nomadic tribes and gnolls that sought to claim the vast and fertile
oasis for themselves. Although the city was sacked, besieged and even
conquered by gnolls several times throughout its history, the nomadic tribes
always managed to reconquer and retake the city. It had been continuously
inhabited by humanoid species for several hundred years now, but had to endure
many sieges and attacks in its recent history.

The city has a vast network of old and ruined watchtowers, walls and military
camps just outside the main walls. Although these are in various states of
disrepair they are still used as way points, watchtowers and should enemies
lay siege to the city. This area has been nicknamed the \emph{sea of towers},
as the old watchtowers can still be seen dotting the landscape from the city
walls.

\subsubsection{Culture}

The people of \emph{Fes al-Bashir} have learned that the art of war, is as
important as the sciences or the arcane studies. They are known as
imperialistic, expanders and seek to prevent and extinguish threats before
they materialise against the city itself. Although the outlying small towns of
the river banks are sparsely manned by the army, each and every citizen is
encouraged to train in combat or even in the arcane for self defense.

Most of the city is atheistic, and the only religion that still manages to
keep a hold onto believers within Fes al-Bashir is the main church of
\emph{Forun}. Although proud, family oriented and staunch believers in their
heritage, they do not see the gods and deities as the answer to their
problems. The city kingdom has the oldest university of all of Aror, and the
belief of the population is that scientific and arcane research can solve any
problem, and does so better than adherence to belief or old superstition.

Due to harrowing temperatures in the summer months (around 40 to 50 degrees)
the people of Fes al-Bashir tend to wear long, light clothes with
turbans. Their dark skin - which they share with most of Arania's inhabitants
- also aids them against the smouldering heat of the desert they inhabit.

Within the society the traditional roles of men are women still run strong, as
women are not encouraged to seek employment, but instead should tend to the
home and raise children. Although women are not bared from seeking employment
by law, the cultural pressure for them not to do so remains high.

People hailing from \emph{Fes al-Bashir} are often described as arrogant or
snobby, as they see their oldest city as the birth place of modern
civilisation, and often find the other city kingdoms lacking or even
primitive.

\subsubsection{Population}

The city itself and its surrounding areas is one of the largest civilisations
on Aror, housing over 33 million people. Most of these are equally spread out
among the four major humanoid races, with humans leading by a small margin
(26\%), followed by elves (24\%) and halflings (22\%) and dwarves (20\%) with
various half races and undead make up the rest (8\%).

\subsubsection{Rule and Laws}

Unlike in other absolute monarchies only a male may rule in Fes al-Bashir and
crowns himself \emph{Malek} instead of king. The malek reigns supreme, but is
aided by a vast court of nobles, bureaucrats and government officials. While
the malek may marry and have a \emph{Malekah} (queen) she holds no real power
within the empire.

The city kingdom still practises slavery, which are drawn from the criminals,
the poor, captured war criminals and those that the kingdom has bought from
other slavering nations. The city is a signer of the \emph{Vonir} accords, and
is also known for being one of the major slave trading hubs in the region.

Intelligent undead are not banned from the city, but may not become citizens
of the kingdom.

\subsubsection{Hall of Knowledge}
\label{sec:Hall of Knowledge}

The \emph{Hall of Knowledge} is the university of Fes al-Bashir. It is the
oldest, biggest and most respected university of the sciences and arcane arts
in all of Aror. Many foreign scientists and wizards come here to study and
learn, and the university has a track record for educating some of the most
prestigious wizards and scientists. Many of the biggest scientific
advancements and discoveries have been made within the Hall of Knowledge: the
true nature of the solar system, advancements in physics, engineering,
mathematics and medicine.

\subsubsection{Relations}

The city kingdom is known for its scientific prowess and vast riches in
agricultural produce, such as herbs, coffee and chocolate, which it is more
than willing to trade through its trading corporation. This, along with a
propensity to lend military and scientific aid, it has achieves a good
diplomatic standing with almost all city kingdoms. However the fall of
\nameref{sec:Esmayar} and the kingdom's subsequent defeat there has dampened
the power and influence of the kingdom within the continent.
