\subsection{Gorgons}
\label{sec:Gorgons}

\emph{Gorgons} are the half-breed descendants of medusa and humanoids. Since
medusa have no males, they must rely on other monstrous or humanoid races to
reproduce. Even though most of the time the result is a pure-breed medusa, the
union between humanoids and medusa may also spawn a half-breed.

Much like their mothers' race, gorgons are a female-only species. They
inherit their humanoid appearance - such as physique, build, skin, hair or eye
colour - from their father, but gain certain traits from their mothers. Just
like medusas, gorgons have small snakes instead of hair. Areas where the skin
on humanoids is harder and tougher - like on the elbows and knees - Gorgons
have patches of reptile scales instead. From afar a gorgon passes as normal
humanoid female. Many gorgons hide their ``hair'' with clothing or even
disguise spells to pass as humanoids.

They inherit the ability to turn people into stone from their mothers, but
the power of the effect is weaker. Still gorgons must actively avoid looking
other people in the eyes or risk turning them to stone permanently.

The snakes and the gorgon live in a symbiosis together, allow the gorgon to
perceive the world through their eyes. They do not directly see through the
eyes of their snakes, but the snakes make them indirectly aware of their
surroundings. The snakes are not venomous, and also reflect the gorgons mood
and feelings. Anyone who knows a gorgon well can deduce the mood from the
snakes' behaviour, even if she tries to hide it her true feelings.

Gorgons are almost always cast out from medusa society who regard them as impure
and weak. They then often attempt to fit in with the societies of humanoids,
but are met there with superstition and fear. Many gorgons grow up in humanoid
societies and thus share many aspects, values and traits of the culture they
grew up in. Generally gorgons are known to be kind, adventurous, open minded,
as well as excellent scholars, bards and wielders of the arcane arts.

However many gorgons reach the city kingdoms in shackles and chains, as they
often do not have citizen papers, power or influence to save them from
slavers. These slavers often blind gorgons to disable their powers, before
selling them to the highest bidder. But with the help of their snakes who
provide them visual input, these unfortunate gorgons can still perceive the
world around them.

\begin{35e}{Gorgon Traits}
  Gorgons speak Teranim, and whatever additional languages their culture and
  background provides.

  \begin{itemize}[noitemsep]
    \item Medium: As Medium creatures, elves have no special bonuses or
      penalties due to their size.
    \item Medusa Heritage (EX): Gorgons are a female only species.
    \item Gorgons inherit their beauty and expressive personality from their
      mothers, giving them a +2 bonus to charisma.
    \item Snake Vision (EX): A gorgon can perceive the world even if it has
      been blinded. She can see and detect shapes, movement as well as smaller
      details giving her \emph{Blindsense (30 ft.)}.
    \item Petrifying Gaze (SU): Turn to stone permanently, 30 feet, Fortitude
      DC 12 negates. The save DC is Charisma-based.
    \item Level Adjustment: +2
  \end{itemize}
\end{35e}
