\subsection{Humans}
\label{sec:Humans}

\emph{Humans} are one of the most prolific of the humanoid races of Aror, and
also the dominant race of the planet. Human artefacts have been found dating
back thousands of of years, outmatching the other humanoid races. There are
two separate ``races'' of humans: those inhabiting the southern part of the
hemisphere who usually have darker skin, and the ``northerners'' who usually
have fair skin. This distinction is superficial only. Apart from the tone in
skin colour, there is no other biological difference between the various human
tribes and civilisations. Humans live up to 80 years, and are known for being
statesmen, diplomats, farmers, adventurers, explorers and scientists.

Humans can be found everywhere on Aror. But history indicates that they
originated on the southern continent of \nameref{sec:Arania} together with the
other core humanoid races, and migrated to all other continents during the
last ice age twenty thousand years ago. Wherever humans settle they build
villages, cities, and large kingdoms and often become the dominant culture and
social structure. Human kingdoms have often endured for hundreds of years, and
have bested many difficulties that had driven other societies to ruin. The
ingenuity of the humans, their stubborn attitude and their uncanny ability to
adapt to any difficulty makes them the dominant race of Aror.

Like most races, humans have no inherent global culture, tradition or customs.
Instead their believes and customs are ever evolving, and specific to the
realm they live in. But there is one trait that the average human has: ingenuity
in the face of adversity. No other species has managed to settle every corner
of the world and endure, and even build lasting civilisations out of the
hostile environment they found themselves in.

\begin{35e}{Human Traits}
  \begin{itemize}[noitemsep]
  \item Medium: As Medium creatures, humans have no special bonuses or
    penalties due to their size.
  \item Human base land speed is 30 feet.
  \item 1 extra feat at 1st level.
  \item 4 extra skill points at 1st level and 1 extra skill point at each
    additional level.
  \item Automatic Language: Teranim. Bonus Languages: Any (other than secret
    languages).
  \item Favoured Class: Any. When determining whether a multiclass human takes
    an experience point penalty, his or her highest-level class does not count.
  \end{itemize}
\end{35e}
