\subsection{Vampires}
\label{sec:Vampires}

Vampires are undead, that were once humanoid creatures such as elves and
humans, that now coexist with their mortal brethren. Those civilised vampires
that have forgone blood in exchange for the liquid \nameref{sec:Ramesk}, have
blue finger nails and hair. Their bodies are very slender, almost skinny, and
their skin comes in various shades of grey or white. Only vampires that drink
Ramesk can see, and their eyes are usually blue. Vampires that drink blood are
blind, having only the white remaining in their eyes.

\subsubsection{History}

During the \nameref{sec:Aeon of Strife} many humanoid clans prayed to what
they believed was a greater deity called \nameref{sec:Morana}. She in turn
revealed to her followers a path to great power, and many of her followers
accepted it. They were turned, often without truly knowing the consequences,
into blind and blood hungry vampires.

Many of these old vampires turned from their ``mother'' and were then
threatened by Morana in turn, revealing her to be a lesser deity. Not
intimidated by the threat, many vampires turned from her and were then killed
by Morana for their insolence. Those that survived did so by turning toward
other lesser deities, such as the \nameref{sec:Silent Queen}, who protected
them from Morana's wrath.

The surviving vampires, often without a way to turn back, then continued
what they originally set out to do: aid the humanoids in fighting the
monstrous races. The humanoids often protected the vampires during the day,
while the vampires fought and feasted upon the monstrous races, such as the
bugbears, goblins, kobolds and hobgoblins. Although still a threat to the very
humanoids these vampires attempted to protect, they earned themselves respect,
friendship and often a noble title and land for their efforts in the many wars
during the \nameref{sec:Aeon of Strife}.

After the Aeon of Strife ended, most vampires held on to their titles, lands,
and riches, trying to live peacefully together with the mortal humanoid races.
They often feasted on animals, or only drank blood their subjects willingly
donated to the vampires. Some vampires however instead turned on the humanoids,
feasting on their blood and thus became \emph{feral vampires}.

\subsubsection{Ramesk and Vampires}

In \emph{MI:310} the recipe for \nameref{sec:Ramesk}, a mineral rich blueish
liquid, was discovered by a \nameref{sec:Deepkin} expedition in the depths of
the \nameref{sec:Cnamh Mountains}. It took a few years of experimentation to
adapt the liquid to work as nourishment for vampires, and there were many
troubles in growing the ingredients on farmland on the surface. But now the
liquid is widely used by the vampires as a substitute to humanoid blood. Only
a gulp of Ramesk is required for a vampire to be fed for twenty four hours.

Ramesk has a few other benefits for vampires. It makes their nails and hair
grow again, albeit in the same shade of light blue of the liquid. Although
nail colours and hair dyes exist, blue hair has become an identification mark
for vampires to show to the mortal races that they are civilised and pose no
threat. Ramesk also restores the vampire's eyesight, giving them blue
pupils. It further reduces their primal longing for humanoid blood, giving
them the ability to explore other feelings such as love, anger or grief which
would otherwise be suppressed by their hunger. Another important aspect of
Ramesk is that vampires become less sensitive to sunlight. Vampires that drink
Ramesk can walk during the daylight, as long as they wear clothing that shades
them from direct exposure to the suns.

\subsubsection{Born Vampires}
\label{sec:Born Vampires}

The vampire nobility of \nameref{sec:House deVar} heavily researched the magic
that turned the early humans and elves into vampires. In \emph{MI:755}, they
restored the ability for female vampires to birth children on their own, thus
furthering the vampire race without having to turn other mortals to become
undead. These new vampires are often called \emph{born vampires}, and are less
powerful that the original vampires. They retain the physical appearance of
the mortal races of their parents. Born vampires reach maturity within a few
years, but often go out into the world to seek adventure, learn skills and
even professions like mortals do.

\subsubsection{Feral Vampires}
\label{sec:Feral Vampires}

Those vampires that actively hunt, feed and kill humanoid races such as
humans or elves, are called \emph{feral vampires}. The taste of mortal blood
makes them savage, primal and often primitive hunters and killers. They are
far and few, but often cause great harm to towns, cities and kingdoms. Feral
vampires are outcasts among the humanoids, monstrous races and even their
civilised brethren, who see them as a threat to the fragile peace between the
mortal and undead races. Feral vampires often return to a worship of their
mother \nameref{sec:Morana}. Much like the original vampires, feral vampires,
are blind and hunt by scent only.

Although feral vampires could be turned from their savage ways by force
feeding them Ramesk, very few undead hunters or civilised vampires bother to
do so. Feral vampires are often hunted and destroyed without prejudice.

\begin{35e}{Vampire}
  Vampires speak whatever language their given by their region or heritage,
  and are not evil by default. Feral vampires have been driven mad by drinking
  humanoid blood, and are usually evil. All vampires, regardless of type, gain
  the \emph{Scent} ability and turn blind, unless they drink Ramesk once every
  twenty four hours.

  Vampires are not afraid of holy symbols, garlic or mirrors, but still take
  penalties from direct exposure to sunlight. Those that drink Ramesk can
  venture into the broad daylight, given that they wear clothing that shields
  their skin from direct exposure. Vampires may also cross running water
  without problems, and may enter any house without being invited.

  \textbf{Born Vampires}:\\
  \begin{itemize}[noitemsep]
    \item Medium: Born vampires are medium creatures, and thus have no special
      bonuses or penalties due to their size.
    \item Type: Undead. Born vampires gain all undead traits, and thus have no
      constitution score.
    \item Feral Blindness (Ex): A born vampire turns blind if he goes without
      Ramesk for twenty four hours.
    \item Blood Drain (Ex): A born vampire can suck blood from a living victim
      with its fangs by making a successful grapple check. If it pins the foe,
      it drains blood, dealing 1d4 points of Constitution drain each round the
      pin is maintained. On each such successful attack, the vampire gains 5
      temporary hit points.
    \item Energy Drain (Su): Living creatures hit by a born vampire's slam
      attack (or any other natural weapon the vampire might possess) gain one
      negative levels. For each negative level bestowed, the born vampire
      gains 5 temporary hit points. A vampire can use its energy drain ability
      once per round.
    \item Scent (Ex): Scent lets a creature detect approaching enemies, sniff
      out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.
    \item Turn Resistance (Ex): A born vampire has +4 turn resistance.
    \item Level Adjustment: +4
  \end{itemize}
\end{35e}
