\chapter{The World of Aror}
\label{sec:Aror}

The world of \emph{Everblack} is situated on a small planet that is
called \emph{Aror}. \emph{Aror} rotates around a binary star system we
call \emph{Carinae}. Both suns can be seen on the sky, with one being
slightly smaller than the other.

The planet also has two moons, one of which is named \emph{Lilest} and
the other \emph{Storst}, in honour of the two magi that first
identified most of the celestial bodies in our solar sytem. They have
many different names in different cultures and languages, but the
names \emph{Lilest} and \emph{Storst} are always understood to refer
to the two moons in the night sky.

\emph{Aror} takes roughly twenty-four (24) hours to rotate around its
own axis, while \emph{Lilest} goes around the planet in thirty-two
(32) days, the bigger moon \emph{Storst} takes forty-eight (48) days
to make one trip around \emph{Aror}. \emph{Aror} itself takes 385 days
to travel around the binary star constellation.

\emph{Aror} is not alone in the system. It is in fact the third planet
from the suns. The first, we call \emph{Forun}, and is a molten rock
of magma, insane temperatures and poisonous gases. \emph{Parin} is
seated between \emph{Forun} and \emph{Aror}, and can be seen with the
naked eye on a clear night sky as a blue shimmering light. Then follow
\emph{Ivir} and \emph{Novar} which are believed to be huge planets made
of various gases. Far beyond the reaches of \emph{Novar} is
\emph{Piad} a smaller, rocky planet on the edge of our binary star
system.

% Geography of Aror
\input{chapters/aror/geography}
% Regions of Aror
\input{chapters/aror/regions}

\input{chapters/aror/timekeeping}
% Put timeline on a new page
\newpage
\input{chapters/aror/timeline}
\newpage

% And history
\input{chapters/aror/history}

\input{chapters/aror/globalism}
\input{chapters/aror/slavery}

% City Kingdoms
\input{chapters/citykingdoms}
