\chapter{Magic in Everblack}
\label{sec:Magic}

Magic is ever present in the world of Everblack. It is used by scholars and
wizards, to improve the lives of everyone, or by dark and ruthless mages to
bring harm and war upon the world. This chapter discusses the foundations of
magic within the world of Everblack, and brings new rules for magical effects
such as \emph{rituals} and \emph{soul magic}.

\section{Three Sources of Magic}

There are three main sources of magic in the world of Everblack. Both divine
and arcane magic, which stem from the same source. The distinction is that
divine magic is granted already prepared in the form of spells to divine
casters, while arcane researchers and scholars build their own spells out of
that same raw magical energy that also fuels divine spells.

The second power are psionical powers, which manifest in the powerful minds of
psykers, and psionic creatures such as \nameref{sec:Ilians}. They do not draw
their power from the same pool as divine or arcane power, and come directly
from the mind of the powerful being that casts that spell. Compared to the
other two, psionic powers are the rarest on Aror.

The third magical source of power is the soul of living beings, which allows
one to cast \nameref{sec:Soul Magic}. This power is either drawn from one's
own soul, or from souls of those around them. Much like psionic power, it
stems directly from the trained or inherent power of the individual, and does
not rely on external sources, such as a raw energy web that seeps in from
other planes. While arcane or divine necromancy is the art of manipulating
and corrupting bodies, soul magic is the art and craft of using ones inherent
power to shape and fuel souls.

%% Arcane Magic
\input{chapters/magic/arcane}

%% Divine Magic
\input{chapters/magic/divine}

%% Psykers
\input{chapters/magic/psionic}

%% Soul Magic
\input{chapters/magic/soulmagic}

% Rituals
\input{chapters/magic/rituals}

% Runemagic
\input{chapters/magic/runemagic}

