\section{Scourge}

The scourge is an extra planar, psionic, life form whose sole purpose is to
grow and expand. It takes the shape of a roughly five centimetre thick, rough
flesh that is warm to the touch. The scourge can grow indefinitely, and can
range from the size of a small patch a few square metres, to covering entire
cave systems, areas or even entire planes.

The scourge feasts on organic matter to survive and grow. It grows over any
organic material that lands upon it surface and begins to slowly digest and
devour it. The scourge can absorb and devour anything soft and organic such as
water, flesh, bone, skin, hair, plants, soft fertile dirt, and even some
softer composite organic materials like cloth or leather. It cannot devour
metallic compounds such as rocks, iron or steel. It takes a while to consume
organic compounds, taking roughly an hour to absorb 10 kg of organic material.

It is hard to say how intelligent the scourge is, as it is mainly driven by
finding new food, which in turn helps it to grow and expand. Anything organic
is considered food, irregardless on whether that food is alive, feeling pain
or is intelligent. Most scholars agree that the scourge has no concept of
mercy or pain and simply devours, without any feelings for its food.

\subsection{Learning through absorption}

Its most devious ability is to learn from any organic material it absorbs. The
scourge then puts these new abilities to use, to find more nourishment for
itself. For example once it has absorbed plants it might grow leaves in the
sun, or once it has absorbed a predator it might spawn its own predator to
hunt and kill prey. The more material it absorbs, the better it begins to
understand the creatures it attempts to copy. So an important secondary goal
for the scourge is to find new genetic material to absorb.

The scourge not only spawns creatures to do tasks, but also grows and changes
itself once it has absorbed new knowledge. It is known to grow eyes in the
walls to personally observe what is going on upon its surface, and it will
grow bones to build bridges over natural gaps, or to reinforce walls or
tunnels. Since it is incapable of growing stone or metal, the structures it
grows have an eerie and horrid appearance, that consists of flesh, bone,
leather and skin.

\subsection{Abyss}
\label{sec:Abyss}

Its home plane is simply referred to as the \emph{abyss}. It is a warm,
volcanic planet that is very geologically active. It has human breathable
atmosphere, but the average temperatures range from 40 to 60 degrees. The
plane is devoid of any other live, save from the scourge and its spawn. The
scourge of the abyss has managed to cover every centimetre of the planet,
making the planet a hellish, contorted and cruel landscape ruled by the ever
present hive mind of the scourge.

The abyss is further populated by uncountable number of demons which aid
the scourge with acquisition of new food, feeding and maintaining the growth
of the scourge on the planet itself.

\subsection{Demons}
\label{sec:Demons}

However the spawn that the scourge produce are often horrible mockeries of the
original. Creatures or animals are often spawned with horrible deformities,
or with severe disabilities and are often just barely capable of performing
the tasks they were designed by the scourge to do. These creatures are
telepathically linked to the scourge, its mother hive mind, as long as they
are near a patch of scourge. The creatures its spawns perform a wide variety
of tasks, such as scouting new areas, defend the hive, directly hunt for food,
or even process the food that has already been captured. Spawn that is created
by the scourge in the \emph{abyss} are called \emph{demons}.

Demons serve a wide variety of functions in the abyss, but the most important
are the acquisition of new food and biological material, and the defence of
the scourge itself. Most demons are intelligent, but do not have their own
free will. Instead they are always controlled by the scourge, either directly
or indirectly through transmission of basic impulses and desires.

\emph{Dretches} are small, horribly deformed vaguely humanoid creatures that
lump about the abyss, and are the scourges eyes and ears. It also uses the
dretches as a first line of defence. \emph{Quasits}, have a similar role and
also serve as winged scouts to the scourge.

\emph{Babau} are humanoid, swift and quick hunters that the scourge uses to
hunt down and kill pray. They work together with \emph{vrocks} which are
winged, vulture like creatures that roam the skies of the abyss looking for
pray.

The \emph{succubus} is a beautiful female humanoid creature that the scourge
spawned for the sole purpose of collecting new biological material to absorb.
The \emph{incubus} does the same, but is a male humanoid spawn instead.
