\subsection{Isles of Conflagration}
\label{sec:Isles of Conflagration}

The \emph{Isles of Conflagration} are a set of islands that rest between North
\nameref{sec:Goltir} and \nameref{sec:Iafandir}. The islands are often
referred to as the ``dead archipelago'', as volcanic eruptions and other
geological activity makes most of the islands barren wastelands.

Even though they are generally hostile to life, many have attempted to settle
the islands. Due to rich layer of volcanic ash, the land is fertile allowing
for a wide variety of crops to grow and flourish on the islands. The land has
become as a save haven for many species, and races that do not wish to live
near humanoid settlements out of fear of being driven away, or prosecuted. The
harbours, towns and settlements were founded by \nameref{sec:Tieflings},
succubi, and other devils that wish to escape the oppression and terror of the
layers of \nameref{sec:Hell}, monstrous humanoids, or by intelligent undead
such as \nameref{sec:Vampires} or \nameref{sec:Umgeher}.

These communities often wish nothing else than to be left in peace, and buy that
peace by growing the rare ingredients required to distil \nameref{sec:Ramesk}
on the fertile soils of the isles. The communities of the isles also mine the
hills, mountains and volcanoes of the isles for precious stones, ores, and
\nameref{sec:Everblack}.

Nevertheless, the isles are seen as a lawless place where criminals go to
hide, and where people settle that do not conform, or fit into any other
society. And although the place is one of the last lawless frontiers of Aror,
it has its own unique charm of free living, boundless opportunity, mixed with
a hazardous environment, and often dangerous inhabitants.
