\subsection{Irene de'Var}
\label{sec:Irene deVar}

Baroness Irene de'Var of Saremen is the current ruler of \nameref{sec:House
  deVar} of Saremen in \nameref{sec:Helmarnock}, and thus one of the five
rulers that make up the council of the city kingdom.

Irene is about two metres tall, and has short white dyed hair, deep blue eyes,
and blue finger nails that show her usage of \nameref{sec:Ramesk}. Generally
Irene is seen as a cunning politician, passionate and genius orator capable of
inspiring and moving their subjects through speeches, and using her commanding
presence and eloquence to resolve conflicts through negotiation. To her people
she shows her warmer, more compassionate side, often meeting her own subjects
on festivities or other special occasions. She wears a regalia in the house's
colours white gold and blue that is a beautiful royal garment made of silk.

Originally a snow elf, she was turned into a vampire in MI:1081 by the Baron
Nareil of House de'Var, to serve as an heir in his house of nobility. The
nobility that has roots back to the time of the great betrayal by
\nameref[sec:Morana] during the aeon of strife, and was instrumental in
establishing and defending the city on the island of Saremen amidst the
constant wars and battles fought against the beast races.

Irene has ruled House de'Var since MI:1121 after the death of Nareil who
restructured and reformed the House into the most dominant noble family on the
island. Irene follows that tradition, and largely stays true to Nareil's style
of leadership with a few notable exception: Irene outlawed slavery on Saremen
in MI:1122 freeing all who were previously enslaved, allowed \nameref{sec:Umgeher}
back into the kingdom, and lifted restrictions on Gorgons being allowed in the
city. The ban on slavery was partially effective, since the city kingdom has
signed the \nameref{sec:Vonir Accord}. No new slaves may be taken within
Saremen, and all slaves of Saremen citizens have been freed, however slavers
of other nations, including the other islands of Helmarnock are still allowed
to follow that practice on Saremen.

Generally Irene de'Var attempts to drive the society of Saremen towards
individualism, liberty and freedom, lifting many restrictions both in the
social sphere - such as lifting marriage restrictions between mortals and
vampires, ending slavery or allowing Gorgons to become citizens - as well as
in the economical sphere by lowering taxes and making it easier for companies
to do business. Her political leanings and open policies, together with her
well-received, compassionate speeches towards her subjects have made her a
well beloved and respected baroness among the citizens of Saremen. Although
she is a brilliant politician and orator, she keeps a cadre of highly skilled
advisers as a ``council of ministers'' that oversee other aspects of the
island, such as defence, finances, civil engineering or leading the Academy of
Arcane Arts.

%% TODO: stat block
